.TH RAWNJL2 1 "05 April 98" "DICOM PS3" "JPEG-LS codec"
.SH NAME
rawnjl2 \- JPEG-LS compress/decompress from raw file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP 10
.B rawnjl2
.B \-rows|\-height|\-h " rows"
.B \-columns|\-width|\-w " cols"
.B \-bits|\-depth " bits"
[
.B \-d|\-decompress
]
[
.B \-near " n"
]
[
.B \-T1|\-Ta " n"
]
[
.B \-T2|\-Tb " n"
]
[
.B \-T3|\-Tc " n"
]
[
.B \-reset " n"
]
[
.B \-nomarkers
]
[
.B \-noruns
]
.so man1/binin.so
.so man1/binout.so
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B rawnjl2
either reads the named raw input file and compresses it per the JPEG-LS
(ISO DIS 14495-1) standard, or reads a compressed file and decompresses
it into a raw output file (when the \-d option is specified).
.LP
The default compression is lossless, though near-lossless compression
can be selected by specifying a pixel value error with the \-near option.
.SH OPTIONS
Error messages go to standard error.
.PP
.PP
Options specific to this program are:
.TP
.BI \-rows|\-height|\-h " rows"
.RS
Required for compression.
.RE
.TP
.BI \-columns|\-width|\-w " cols"
.RS
Required for compression.
.RE
.TP
.BI \-bits|\-depth|\-d " bits"
.RS
Required for compression.
.RE
.TP
.BI \-d|\-decompress
.RS
Selects decompression rather than compression (the default).
.RE
.TP
.BI \-near " n"
.RS
If not zero (the default), selects near\-lossless compression. The
value specified is the amount of error allowed in the reconstructed
pixel value realtive to the original pixel value.
.RE
.TP
.BI \-T1|\-Ta " n"
.TP
.BI \-T2|\-Tb " n"
.TP
.BI \-T3|\-Tc " n"
.TP
.BI \-reset " n"
.RS
Specify values other than the defaults for various compression
parameters (see the standard for explanation).
.RE
.TP
.BI \-nomarkers
.RS
Turns off writing (and reading) JPEG markers in the compressed output.
Useful for examining the coompressed bitstream, though zero bit stuffing
after 0xff bytes is still performed (and expected on decompression). Implies
that the image parameters and non-default compression parameters need to be
specified on the command line during decompression.
.RE
.TP
.BI \-noruns
.RS
Turns off run mode during compression (and also needs to be specified for
decompression). Thgis creates a non-standard bitstream bit is interesting
to test the additional effectiveness the low entropy (less than one bit per
pixel) run mode.
.RE
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.LP
\ 
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\ 
.RE
% rawnjl2 -h 4 -e 4 -bits 8 -input-endian little 1.raw 1.jls
.RE
% rawnjl2 -d -output-endian little 1.jls 1.cmp
.RE
% cmp 1.raw 1.cmp
.SH FILES
.LP
\ 
.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
http://www.jpeg.org/
.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (C) 1993-2010. David A. Clunie DBA PixelMed Publishing. All rights reserved.
.SH BUGS
The near-lossless mode may trigger a bug that cause mapped error values
to go negative and lead to a failed assertion. The standard seems unlcear
on this point.
.LP
The compressed datastream does not seem to match the HP LOCO 0.90 implementation
for some images, though the tiny example file in the standard compresses to
match the standard and the HP implementation.
