.TH ANTODC 1 "11 January 1999" "DICOM PS3" "DICOM PS3 - Convert ACR-NEMA to DICOM"
.SH NAME
antodc \- ACR/NEMA DICOM PS3 ... DICOM PS3 - Convert ACR-NEMA to DICOM
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP 10
.B antodc
[
.B \-v|verbose
]
.so man1/optin.so
.so man1/optout.so
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B antodc
reads the named acr-nema input file and copies the information and
pixel data to a new dicom file, converting as many attributes as
possible to make valid dicom information objects.
.LP
The input encoding of the file will be automatically determined, or can
be explicitly specified in pathological cases using the input options
described in dcintro(1).
.LP
The encoding of the file will be changed to the default or explicitly
requested transfer syntax, as described in dcintro(1) under output
options. This provides a means of converting between different transfer
syntaxes, and adding or removing Part 10 style meta-information headers
to or from "true" DICOM files, DICOM messages captured from network
exchanges such as with the Mallinckrodt or Oldenburg central test node
software, or converting old ACR/NEMA or SPI files.
.LP
During the translation, specific attributes may be deleted, added or
replaced, class and instance unique identifiers generated or removed,
group lengths added, or private attributes removed, as specified by
the replacement options described in dcintro(1). This allows pre-DICOM
ACR-NEMA or SPI files to be converted to DICOM files containing
conforming instances of SOP classes in a semi-automated manner. If the
SOP Class can be automatically determined, such as for CT or MR images,
specific SOP Class instances will be created, otherwise SC will be used.
Unique study, series and instance identifiers will be generated from a
time stamp, but can be overridden by command line options to allow for
shared identifiers between files of a series.
.LP
A special effort is made to find a useful value for Instance Number
(formerly Image Number), by looking for private attributes (e.g. Philips
MR). Similarly, if Series Number is absent, then StudyID is copied to
it (Siemens MR), and the same for other series level attributes.
.SH OPTIONS
The verbose output goes to standard error.
.LP
The basic input switches are described in dcintro(1). Options specific to this program are:
.TP
.B \-verbose
.RS
Display byte offset from file start and message start, in hexadecimal, and dump contents while reading, once read, during replacement, and before writing.
.RE
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.LP
\ 
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.SH FILES
.LP
\ 
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR dcintro(1),
.BR dccp(1)
.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (C) 1993-2010. David A. Clunie DBA PixelMed Publishing. All rights reserved.
.SH BUGS
.LP
If there are no gantry relative image orientation and position values in
the input, antodc will try to use patient orientation and slice location
to guess suitable values ... this works OK for orientation but very
likely the direction of the position value will have the wrong sign.
.LP
Invalid enumerated values for scanning sequence may be created or left
alone.
