.TH DCCP 1 "22 January 2006" "DICOM PS3" "DICOM PS3 - Copy DICOM file"
.SH NAME
dccp \- ACR/NEMA DICOM PS3 ... DICOM PS3 - Copy DICOM file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP 10
.B dccp
[
.B \-v|verbose
]
[
.B \-ignorereaderrors
]
[
.B \-removecommandgroup
]
[
.B \-selectvoilutitem 0..n\-1
]
.so man1/optin.so
.so man1/optout.so
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B dccp
reads the named dicom or acr-nema input file and copies the information and
pixel data to a new dicom file.
.LP
The input encoding of the file will be automatically determined, or can
be explicitly specified in pathological cases using the input options
described in dcintro(1).
.LP
The encoding of the file will be changed to the default or explicitly
requested transfer syntax, as described in dcintro(1) under output
options. This provides a means of converting between different transfer
syntaxes, and adding or removing Part 10 style meta-information headers
to or from "true" DICOM files, DICOM messages captured from network
exchanges such as with the Mallinckrodt or Oldenburg central test node
software, or converting old ACR/NEMA or SPI files.
.LP
During the translation, specific attributes may be deleted, added or
replaced, class and instance unique identifiers generated or removed,
group lengths added, or private attributes removed, as specified by
the replacement options described in dcintro(1). This allows pre-DICOM
ACR-NEMA or SPI files to be converted to DICOM files containing
conforming instances of SOP classes in a semi-automated manner. If the
SOP Class can be automatically determined, such as for CT or MR images,
specific SOP Class instances will be created, otherwise SC will be used.
Unique study, series and instance identifiers will be generated from a
time stamp, but can be overridden by command line options to allow for
shared identifiers between files of a series.
.SH OPTIONS
The verbose output goes to standard error.
.LP
The basic input switches are described in dcintro(1). Options specific to this program are:
.TP
.B \-verbose
.RS
Display byte offset from file start and message start, in hexadecimal, and dump contents while reading, once read, during replacement, and before writing.
.RE
.TP
.B \-ignorereaderrors
.RS
Normally dccp stops if read errors are encountered, but if this option is
turned on, it will try to write what it can. This may be useful to remove
trailing garbage after a valid dicom set that has been padded past the
pixel data (e.g. to a blocksize) or similar.
.RE
.TP
.B \-removecommandgroup
.RS
Normally dccp will created an invalid copy if the input is in implicit VR and erroneously has
command group (0x0000) elements at the head of the dataset (e.g. if the both the command
and dataset network PDUs were saved to a file), since the command group elements will get
inserted in fromt of the meta information header. Use this option to remove command group
elements (whether or not a meta information header is added).
.RE
.TP
.B \-selectvoilutitem 0..n\-1
.RS
Keep only the selected VOI LUT Sequence Item, where the items are numbered from 0.
.RE
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.LP
\ 
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.RE
\ 
.RE
% echo Adds meta-information header by default
.RE
% dccp -v NM.dc3 NM2.dc3
.RE
******** While reading ... ********
.RE
@0x00000000,0x00000000 of 0xffffffff: (0x0008,0x0000) ...
.RE
...
.RE
******** As read ... ********
.RE
(0x0008,0x0000) UL Group Length VR=<UL> ...
.RE
...
.RE
******** As written ... ********
.RE
(0x0002,0x0000) UL Meta Element Group Length ...
.RE
(0x0002,0x0001) OB File Meta Information Version ...
.RE
...
.RE
(0x0008,0x0008) CS Image Type VR=<CS> VL=<24> <...>
.RE
...
.RE
\ 
.RE
% echo Make explicit big endian, with stamp & replacement,
.RE
       and removal of private attributes
.RE
\ 
.RE
% dccp \-v \-ts 1.2.840.10008.1.2.2 \-stamp "9999" 
.RE
       \-r PatientSex F \-removeprivate
.RE
       test.dc3 test.big
.RE
******** While reading ... ********
.RE
@0x00000000,0x00000000 of 0xffffffff: (0x0008,0x0000) ...
.RE
...
.RE
******** As read ... ********
.RE
...
.RE
(0x0010,0x0040) CS PatientSex VR=<CS> VL=<2> <M > 
.RE
...
.RE
(0x0028,0x0010) US Rows       VR=<US> VL=<2> [100]
.RE
...
.RE
(0x0029,0x0010) LO Private Creator ... [ACME CO ]
.RE
(0x0029,0x1010) DS Zoom       VR=<DS> VL=<0> <>
.RE
...
.RE
******** After replace before... ********
.RE
...
.RE
(0x0010,0x0040) CS PatientSex VR=<CS> VL=<2> <F> 
.RE
...
.RE
******** As written ... ********
.RE
(0x0002,0x0000) UL Meta Element Group Length ...
.RE
(0x0002,0x0001) OB File Meta Information Version ...
.RE
...
.RE
(0x0010,0x0040) CS PatientSex VR=<CS> VL=<2> <F> 
.RE
...
.RE
(0x0028,0x0010) US Rows       VR=<US> VL=<2> [100]
.RE
...
.SH FILES
.LP
\ 
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR dcintro(1)
.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (C) 1993-2010. David A. Clunie DBA PixelMed Publishing. All rights reserved.
.SH BUGS
