.TH DCDIRMK 1 "9 August 2007" "DICOM PS3" "DICOM PS3 - Create DICOMDIR"
.SH NAME
dcdirmk \- ACR/NEMA DICOM PS3 ... DICOM PS3 - Create DICOMDIR
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP 10
.B dcdirmk
" inputfile1 [ inputfile2 ... ]"
[
.B \-v|verbose|vv|veryverbose
]
[
.B \-l
]
[
.B \-noicons
]
[
.B \-position
]
[
.B \-novalidatename
]
[
.B \-noinstancechildoffset
]
[
.B \-descriptor|-readme " filename"
]
[
.B \-identifier|-id " filesetid"
]
[
.B \-dirrecorder " pcs|psc|scp|spc|csp|cps"
]
[
.B \-input-nometa
]
[
.B \-input-ts " uid"
]
[
.B \-input-default
]
[
.B \-input-byteorder|-input-endian " big|little"
]
[
.B \-input-vr " implicit|explicit"
]
[
.B \-f|-filelist " filename"
]
.so man1/optout.so
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B dcdirmk
reads the named dicom input files (and/or the files listed in the specified
file), extracts patient, study, series and image
information, and creates a DICOMDIR file as output.
.LP
Note that it is the user's responsibility to ensure that the filenames of
the input files, which will be written to the output DICOMDIR, comply
with the limitations specified in PS 3.10, specifically all upper case
or numbers or underscore, 8 characters per component, and no more than
8 components.
.LP
The input encoding of the file will be automatically determined, or can
be explicitly specified in pathological cases using the input options
described in dcintro(1).
.LP
The output encoding of the file be the default for the DICOMDIR but can
be overridden, though this is very unlikely to be useful.
.LP
Icon images are derived from the image pixel data.
.LP
Since some attributes are mandatory in the directory records that may be
zero-length in image objects, a meagre effort is made to fill them with
defaults. Specifically, 19000101 will be used for the Study Date if missing, 000000
will be used for the Study Time if missing, the Study Date (or 19000101) will
be used for the Study ID if missing, the value 0 will be used for Series Number if missing, the
value NOPATIENTID will be used for Patient ID if missing and the value Nobody^ will be used for
Patient Name if missing.
.SH OPTIONS
The verbose output goes to standard error.
.LP
The basic input switches are described in dcintro(1). Options specific to this program are:
.TP
.B \-v|verbose
.RS
Display all attributes in each directory record, once the directory is built.
.RE
.TP
.B \-vv|veryverbose
.RS
Display byte offset from file start and message start, in hexadecimal, and dump contents while reading and once read, and various intermediate data structures,
and calculations as the directory is built.
.RE
.TP
.B \-l
.RS
List filenames as they are read.
.RE
.TP
.B \-descriptor|readme filename
.RS
Insert a reference to the specified file as the File-set Descriptor File ID.
.RE
.TP
.B \-identifier|id filesetid
.RS
Specify a value for the File-set ID which otherwise defaults to null.
.RE
.TP
.B \-noicons
.RS
Don't insert icon images. The default is to insert them.
.RE
.TP
.B \-position
.RS
Add positioning and referenced image attributes to image directory record
to facilitate posting of localizer from the directory only.
.RE
.TP
.B \-novalidatename
.RS
Don't validate image filenames. The default is to validate them.
.RE
.TP
.B \-noinstancechildoffset
.RS
Do not include the Offset of Referenced Lower-Level Directory Entity (0004,1420) for
instance-level records (which have no children). Use of this option will create illegal
DICOMDIR files that are useful for testing the defensiveness of DICOMDIR readers in
this regard. The default is to include the attribute with a value of 0, as the standard
requires.
.RE
.TP
.B \-dirrecorder pcs|psc|scp|spc|csp|cps
.RS
Order directory records in a particular way. Argument is abbreviation for "parent", 
"child" and "sibling" order. Used for creating DICOMDIRs to exercise various parser's
implict assumptions about order of offset pointers.
.RE
.TP
.B \-f|filelist filename
.RS
A file containing a list of DICOM input files (one filename per line).
.RE
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.LP
\ 
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.RE
\ 
.RE
% dcdirmk IMAGES/[0-9]* >DICOMDIR
.RE
% dcdirdmp DICOMDIR
.RE
PATIENT Patient 3 000003
.RE
 STUDY 000003  19940517 112213 BRAIN
.RE
  SERIES 3 MR
.RE
   IMAGE 3
.RE
   -> IMAGES\3333 
.RE
   IMAGE 2
.RE
   -> IMAGES\3332 
.RE
   IMAGE 1
.RE
   -> IMAGES\3331 
.RE
  SERIES 2 MR
.RE
 ...
.SH FILES
.LP
\ 
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR dcintro(1), 
.BR dcdirdmp(1)
.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (C) 1993-2010. David A. Clunie DBA PixelMed Publishing. All rights reserved.
.SH BUGS
.LP
The approach to making the icon image is make everything 8 bit, and
use the first "plane" as is regardless of whether it is color or indexed
(or even worse, interleaved). This will work really well for
MONOCHROME2 images where BitsStored is not much bigger than the real
maximum and the PixelRepresentaion is unsigned !
.LP
Output of icon images in implicit VR will fail.
.LP




