.TH DCDIRDMP 1 "1 May 2011" "DICOM PS3" "DICOM PS3 - Describe DICOMDIR content"
.SH NAME
dcdirdmp \- ACR/NEMA DICOM PS3 ... DICOM PS3 - Describe DICOMDIR content
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP 10
.B dcdirdmp
[
.B \-v|verbose|vv|veryverbose
]
[
.B \-showrecordinfo
]
[
.B \-description
]
[
.B \-p|paths
]
[
.B \-filename
]
.so man1/optin.so
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B dcdirdmp
reads the named dicom input file and interprets it as a DICOMDIR file, that
is a DICOM file containing an instance of the Basic Directory IOD.
.LP
If the file contains a valid instance of the directory, the hierarchical
record structure is traversed and displayed in a depth first manner. The
default output displays selected attribute values for recognized types
of directory record, including the Referenced File ID. The verbose options
increase the amount of information dumped.
.LP
Note that directory record offset values within attributes are in bytes
from the start of the file (including meta-information header and
pre-amble) and these point to the beginning of the Item delimiter that
introduces each item in the directory record sequence. The offset values
displayed in the verbose output for the first attribute of each sequence
item will therefore be 8 bytes greater, as the Item delimiter itself
is not displayed.
.SH OPTIONS
The description and verbose output go to standard error.
.LP
Binary attributes are written in hexadecimal with a preceding
"0x". Numeric string attributes are written in decimal. Attribute values
are displayed in hexadecimal or string format as determined by the value representation.
.PP
The basic input switches are described in dcintro(1). Options specific to this program are:
.TP
.B \-v|verbose
.RS
Display all attributes in each directory record.
.RE
.TP
.B \-vv|veryverbose
.RS
Display byte offset from file start and message start, in hexadecimal, and dump contents while reading and once read.
.RE
.TP
.B \-showrecordinfo
.RS
Display byte offset with each directory record entry, in hexadecimal.
.RE
.TP
.B \-description
.RS
Display the Study and Series Description attribute values.
.RE
.TP
.B \-p|paths
.RS
Show Unix style path information for each referenced file only (suppresses normal output).
Used, for example, to feed paths as command line arguments to some other utility.
.RE
.TP
.B \-filename
.RS
Show the name of the file supplied in the arguments; a hyphen will be reported if no filename was supplied.
.RE
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.LP
\ 
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.RE
\ 
.RE
% dcdirdmp DICOMDIR
.RE
PATIENT SMITH^^^^ 1634-94
.RE
        STUDY 1  19960101 113013 
.RE
                VISIT
.RE
                STUDY COMPONENT XA ?
.RE
                SERIES 1 XA
.RE
                        IMAGE 2
.RE
                         -> XA000002
.RE

.RE
% dcdirdmp -description DICOMDIR
.RE
PATIENT Jones^Thomas 3648263
.RE
        STUDY 1  20110101 103425 CT Chest/Abdo/Pelvis 
.RE
                SERIES 1 CT Portal Venous Phase
.RE
                        IMAGE 1
.RE
                         -> DICOM\\IM1
.RE

.RE
% dcdirdmp -v DICOMDIR
.RE
PATIENT SMITH^^^^ 1634-94
.RE
(0x0004,0x1400) UL Next Directory Record Offset ...
.RE
 ...
.RE
(0x0010,0x0010) PN Patient's Name VR=<PN> ... 
.RE
 ...
.RE
(0x0010,0x0020) LO Patient's ID ... 
.RE
(0x0010,0x0030) DA Patient's Birth Date ...
.RE
(0x0010,0x0040) CS Patient's Sex  ...
.RE
        STUDY 1  19960101 113013 
.RE
        (0x0004,0x1400) UL Next Directory Record Offset ...
.RE
 ...
.RE
        (0x0008,0x0050) SH Accession Number ...
.RE
...
.RE
\ 
.RE
% dcdirdmp -vv dicomdir.
.RE
******** While reading ... ********
.RE
@0x00000084,0x00000000 of 0xffffffff: (0x0002,0x0000) ...
.RE
 ...
.RE
RootDirectoryFirstRecord = 0x190
.RE
RootDirectoryLastRecord = 0x190
.RE
Number of records = 7
.RE
Offset = 0x190
.RE
        @0x00000198: (0x0004,0x1400) UL Next Dir Record ... 
.RE
...
.RE
Offset = 0x2a4
.RE
        @0x000002ac: (0x0004,0x1400) UL Next Dir Record ...
.RE
 ...
.RE
PATIENT 1634-94-1 1634-94
.RE
@0x00000198: (0x0004,0x1400) UL Next Dir Record Offset ...
.RE
 ...
.RE
@0x00000268: (0x0010,0x0010) PN Patient's Name ...
.RE
 ...
.RE
.SH FILES
.LP
\ 
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR dcdump(1) ,
.BR dcintro(1)
.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (C) 1993-2011. David A. Clunie DBA PixelMed Publishing. All rights reserved.
.SH BUGS
.LP
MRDR not yet handled properly.
