.TH DCKEY 1 "19 November 2008" "DICOM PS3" "DICOM PS3 - Extract attribute values"
.SH NAME
dckey \- ACR/NEMA DICOM PS3 ... Extract attribute values
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP 10
.B dckey
[
.B \-ignorereaderrors
]
[
.B \-v|verbose
]
[
.B \-filename
]
[
.B \-describe
]
[
.B \-brief
]
[
.B \-d|decimal
]
[
.B \-key|k " elementname|(0xgggg,0xeeee) ] ..."
.so man1/optin.so
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B dckey
reads the named dicom input file and displays the values of the selected attributes.
.LP
Binary attributes are written in hexadecimal with a preceding
"0x" and numeric string attributes are written in decimal as they are encoded,
unless the \-decimal option is specified.
.SH OPTIONS
The attribute values, description and verbose output go to standard error.
.PP
The basic input switches are described in dcintro(1). Options specific to this program are:
.TP
.B \-describe
.RS
Display the tag, name, value representation and value length of the attribute.
.RE
.TP
.B \-brief
.RS
Display the keyword of the attribute, and equals sign, and then the value, for use in
scripts that automatically extract multiple values in the same dckey invocation. Implies \-noerror.
.RE
.TP
.B \-ignorereaderrors
.RS
Attempt to extract key values even if errors encountered whilst parsing DICOM file.
.RE
.TP
.B \-noerror
.RS
Do not report an error if the requested attribute was not found, just an empty value or line. Implied by \-brief.
.RE
.TP
.B \-d|decimal
.RS
Display the first (or only) value of a numeric attribute as a decimal value.
.RE
.TP
.B \-k|key " elementname|(0xgggg,0xeeee)"
.RS
Add a key to the list of attributes to be extracted. The attribute may also be specified
as a hexadecimal pair of the form (0xgggg,0xeeee), which also allows private attributes to be fetched.
.RE
.TP
.B \-filename
.RS
Show the name of the file supplied in the arguments; a hyphen will be reported if no filename was supplied.
.RE
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.LP
\ 
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.RE
\ 
.RE
% dckey -key Rows -key Columns -key ImageLocation
.RE
        -describe test.dc3
.RE
(0x0028,0x0010) US Rows    VR=<US> VL=<0x0002> [0x0100] 
.RE
(0x0028,0x0011) US Columns VR=<US> VL=<0x0002> [0x0100] 
.RE
Error - Not found - (0x0028,0x0200) US Image Location 
.RE
\ 
.RE
% dckey -k Rows -k ImagePositionPatient
.RE
      -k StudyDate -k StudyTime
.RE
      -k SOPClassUID test.dc3
.RE
1.2.840.10008.5.1.4.1.1.2
.RE
1996.04.17
.RE
19:38:00
.RE
45.000000\\-120.000000\\120.000000 
.RE
0x0200
\ 
.RE
% dckey -d -k Rows test.dc3
.RE
512
\ 
.RE
% dckey -brief -k Rows -k Columns test.dc3
.RE
Rows=0x200
.RE
Columns=0x200
.SH FILES
.LP
\ 
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR dcintro(1), dctable(1)
.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (C) 1993-2010. David A. Clunie DBA PixelMed Publishing. All rights reserved.
.SH BUGS
.LP
Attempts to extract sequences or OB,OW attributes may fail nastily.
.LP
The order in which the attributes are extracted and written is not the same
order as they are specified on the command line, and should not be depended
on.
.LP
The \-describe and other options cannot be used at the same time.
.LP
The \-decimal option uses a double conversion before displaying the value and
there may be sign extension and precision issues with some values.
.LP
The reading of the attributes from the DICOM file will not proceed past the
top level Pixel Data attribute, in order to accelerate the speed of reading.

