.TH DCLUTDMP 1 "6 March 2007" "DICOM PS3" "DICOM PS3 - dump LUT contents"
.SH NAME
dclutdmp \- ACR/NEMA DICOM PS3 ... DICOM PS3 - dump LUT contents
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP 10
.B dclutdmp
[
.B \-ancreate
]
[
.B \-min value
]
[
.B \-max value
]
[
.B \-v|verbose
]
[
.B \-filename
]
.so man1/optin.so
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B dclutdmp
reads the named dicom input file and dumps the contents of any VOI LUT
present (as decimal values).
.SH OPTIONS
The descriptive attributes go to standard error.
.PP
The tab delimited input vs. output value list goes to stdout.
.PP
The basic input switches are described in dcintro(1). Options specific to this program are:
.TP
.B \-ancreate
.RS
Display item, end item and end sequence delimiter tags in a form suitable to feed into ancreate.
.RE
.TP
.B \-min value
.TP
.B \-max value
.RS
Specify the first and last input values to dump ... if these are greater than
the specified input range of the actual LUT, then the first and last output
values are replicated as per the standard. The values may also be less than
the actual LUT range. This option makes it easier to
concatenate two LUTs specified over different input values for the purposes
of comparison.
.RE
.TP
.B \-verbose
.RS
Dump the complete list of DICOM attributes present in the input to stderr.
.RE
.TP
.B \-filename
.RS
Show the name of the file supplied in the arguments; a hyphen will be reported if no filename was supplied.
.RE
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.LP
\ 
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.SH FILES
.LP
\ 
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ancreate(1) ,
.BR andump(1) ,
.BR dcintro(1)
.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (C) 1993-2010. David A. Clunie DBA PixelMed Publishing. All rights reserved.
.SH BUGS
