.TH DCMULTI 1 "5 March 2005" "DICOM PS3" "DICOM PS3 - Make multiframe image"
.SH NAME
dcmulti \- ACR/NEMA DICOM PS3 ... DICOM PS3 - Make multiframe image from single frames
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP 10
.B dcmulti
" inputfile1 [ inputfile2 ... ]"
[
.B \-v|verbose|vv|veryverbose|vvv|veryveryverbose
]
[
.B \-l
]
[
.B \-noicons
]
[
.B \-position
]
[
.B \-sortby " elementname "
[
.B \-descending
]
]
[
.B \-nomrmf
]
[
.B \-makestack
[
.B \-stackdescending
]
]
[
.B \-temporalposition
]
[
.B \-dimension " elementname functionalgroupname "
]
[
.B \-multidimension " elementname functionalgroupname organizationlabel organizationuid"
]
[
.B \-addreferenced " class instance frames purposescheme code mng vers "
[
.B \-perframereference
]
]
[
.B \-addderivation " class instance frames derivationcheme code mng vers purposecheme code mng vers "
[
.B \-perframederivation
]
]
[
.B \-addsatslab " thickness orientX orientY orientZ midpointX midpointY midpointZ "
]
[
.B \-addcolorlut " numberofentries firstvaluemapped firstred incrred firstgreen incrgreen firstblue incrblue "
]
[
.B \-accumulateduration
]
[
.B \-derivedurationfromtiming
]
[
.B \-addnonderivedstuffanyway
]
[
.B \-addpositionstuffanyway
]
[
.B \-addtimingstuffanyway
]
[
.B \-phasecontrast
]
[
.B \-minimalattributes
]
[
.B \-nowindow
]
[
.B \-enhancedcontrast
]
[
.B \-sync
]
[
.B \-copyall
]
[
.B \-input-nometa
]
[
.B \-input-ts " uid"
]
[
.B \-input-default
]
[
.B \-input-byteorder|-input-endian " big|little"
]
[
.B \-input-vr " implicit|explicit"
]
.so man1/optout.so
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B dcmulti
reads the named dicom single frame input files, checks to ensure that
patient, study, series and image information, are consistent
and concatenates all the images into a multiframe image as output.
.LP
Moderately extensive checking is performed to ensure that patient, study
and series level identifiers and UIDs are consistent. Image level attributes
related to pixel representation (i.e. the Image Pixel Module) are also
checked, since inconsistency in these will render the output
meaningless. For specific modalities, such as CT and MR, other image
level attributes are checked for consistency, such as rescale
parameters, pulse sequence parameters and slice thickness.
.LP
It is recommended that before building a multiframe object, the source
images be manually checked for consistency of important attributes,
for example by using the dctable(1) utility on the same set of images.
.LP
The images will be concatenated in the order specified on the command
line, unless the \-sortby option is specified, in which case they will
first be sorted in ascending order (unless \-descending is specified)
by the values of the attribute. Any numeric attribute that is expected
to be present in the images can be specified.
.LP
In addition, either
ImagePositionPatient or ImageOrientationPatient may be specified
as sort keys. These multi-valued attributes are handled specially
for sorting.
.LP
For ImagePositionPatient, the images will be sorted
by relative position along a vector normal to the plane of the
first image (which ideally be the same plane and normal for all
images though this is not required). For example, for axial images
that are oriented as if viewed from below, images closer to the
feet will sort before images closer to the head, since the normal is
directed from the image plane toward the viewer, and the DICOM coordinate
system along the Z axis values toward the head are more positive.
Note that the first image supplied on the command line does not have
to be the first in the volume for this to work.
.LP
Note that a similar effect can be achieved by sorting on SliceLocation,
but this is an optional attribute, may not be present or completed,
does not have a defined sign with respect to orientation of the patient,
and may not correctly reflect complicated oblique slices in MR.
.LP
For ImageOrientationPatient, the images will be sorted
by relative angle between vectors normal to the planes of
the current image and the first image. Ideally, all these
normals should be coplanar for the sort to be meaningful.
Note that the first image supplied on the command line does not have
to be the first rotation in the volume for this to work.
.LP
The output file will contain a Number Of Frames attribute with the
number of frames generated (equal to the number of input files),
but there is no provision to automatically generate a Frame Increment
Pointer. If necessary this can be added on the command line together
with the appropriate vectors of values, using the \-r option, or
built using ancreate(1) and merged into the output of this utility
with dcmerge(1).
.LP
The output file will contain attributes for the general and SOP Class
specific modules copied from the first image, unless -copyall is
specified in which case it will contain all the same attributes as the the first sorted
input file. This includes patient, study and series level identifiers and
UIDs, except that Instance Number will be set to 1 and a new SOP Instance
UID will be generated. Any Data Set Trailing Padding in the input images
will also be removed.
.LP
Note especially that the SOPClassUID will not be changed, that is it will
be the same as the (first sorted) input file, with the exception of the
SC and MR SOP Classes, in which case an appropriate new SC multi-frame
oir MR SOP Class will be chosen. In the case of CT images, where
multiframe images are not allowed, this will generate an illegal DICOM
dataset. The SOPClassUID can be replaced on the command line by using
the \-r option, but since there is no standard SOP Class for multiframe
CT, it is not obvious what the output SOP
Class should be. Until the standard is extended, the use of a private
SOP class is recommended. In the case where the multiframe output of
this utility is only being used as an intermediate step to another
multiframe file format or for import into a viewing application that
can't sort slices but can read volumes, then the issue of SOP Class
can probably safely be ignored.
.LP
The input encoding of the file will be automatically determined, or can
be explicitly specified in pathological cases using the input options
described in dcintro(1).
.LP
The output encoding of the file needs to have the same byte order
(little or big endian) as the input files.
.SH OPTIONS
The verbose output goes to standard error.
.LP
The basic input switches are described in dcintro(1). Options specific to this program are:
.TP
.B \-v|verbose
.RS
List sort order and which file contributres to which frame as it is written.
.RE
.TP
.B \-vv|veryverbose
.RE
.B \-vvv|veryveryverbose
.RS
Dump contents of files and data structures with increasing verbosity.
.RE
.TP
.B \-sortby elementname [\-descending]
.RS
Sort by the specified DICOM element name in ascending (default) or
descending numeric order.
.RE
.TP
.B \-nomrmf
.RS
Do not make MR multi-frame, and leave the single frame MR SOP Class UID alone.
.RE
.TP
.B \-makestack [\-stackdescending]
.RS
Build MR multi-frame object stacks from position and orientation information and assign each
frame a Stack ID and In-stack Position Number. The order in which the frames in a stack are
sorted by position along the normal to the plane orientation is ascending unless descending
is specified. Note that the frames are not physically re-organized by stack ... only the
identifiers are created. The sort direction (ascending or descending) of the stack may be different from the direction
of the encoded frames themselves.
.RE
.TP
.B \-temporalposition
.RS
For MR multi-frame, find temporal positions based on Trigger Time, or Acquisition Time if
Trigger Time is absent, and insert Temporal Position Index into Frame Content Macro. Note that the frames are not physically re-organized by temporal position ... only the identifiers are created.
.RE
.TP
.B \-dimension elementname functionalgroupname
.RE
.B \-multidimension elementname functionalgroupname organizationlabel organizationuid
.RS
Zero or more dimensions may be specified, those encountered earlier on the command line being the
major dimensions (varying slowest). It is necessary to specify both the name of the element that
is used as the index of the dimension (e.g. TriggerDelayTime, InStackPositionNumber) as well as
the name of the sequence of the functional group in which it is contained (e.g. CardiacTriggerSequence,
FrameContentSequence). The specified element should be of a numeric VR, except for selected exceptions
that include FrameType and ContrastBolusAgentPhase, for which pre-determined sort orders are defined.
If the \-dimension argument is used, there is only a single dimension organization. If the \-multidimension
argument is used, then more than one dimension organization (set of dimensions) can be specified, and
these are distinguished from each other if either the specified label or the specified uid are distinct.
Either the label or the uid or both may be blank. If they are both blank, then a default dimension organization
will be used (this is then the same as using \-dimension). If the uid is blank then a uid will be generated
by the application for each dimension organization (including the default and those with distinct labels).
.RE
.TP
.B \-addreferenced class instance frames purposescheme code mng vers
.RS
Add Referenced Image Sequence using the supplied parameters (frame may be zero length
if whole image).
.RE
.TP
.B \-perframereference
.RS
Add the Referenced Image Sequence to the Per-frame rather than Shared functional groups sequence
(even though all identical).
.RE
.TP
.B \-addderivation class instance frames derivationcheme code mng vers purposecheme code mng vers
.RS
Add Derivation Image Sequence using the supplied parameters (frame may be zero length
if whole image).
.RE
.B \-perframederivation
.RS
Add the Derivation Image Sequence to the Per-frame rather than Shared functional groups sequence
(even though all identical).
.RE
.TP
.B \-addsatslab thickness orientX orientY orientZ midpointX midpointY midpointZ
.RS
Add Saturation Slab using the supplied parameters.
.RE
.TP
.B \-addcolorlut numberofentries firstvaluemapped firstred incrred firstgreen incrgreen firstblue incrblue
.RS
Add a Supplemental Color LUT using the supplied parameters.
.RE
.TP
.B \-accumulateduration
.RS
Summate frame acquisition durations to compute acquisition duration for whole object
(e.g. for a cine MR acquisition). Default is to expect that frame and image acquisition
durations are the same
.RE
.TP
.B \-derivedurationfromtiming
.RS
Derive a value for frame acquisition duration and acquisition duration from MR timing
parameters like number of averages, number of frequency encoding steps, repetition
time and echo train length.
.RE
.TP
.B \-addnonderivedstuffanyway
.RS
Normally at the image and frame level if the first value of Image Type is DERIVED, acquisition specific
stuff is not added ... this option forces it to be added anyway.
.RE
.TP
.B \-addpositionstuffanyway
.RS
Normally at the image and frame level if the first value of Image Type is DERIVED, position and orientation
stuff is not added ... this option forces it to be added anyway.
.RE
.TP
.B \-addtimingstuffanyway
.RS
Normally at the image and frame level if the first value of Image Type is DERIVED, acquisition and reference timing
stuff is not added ... this option forces it to be added anyway.
.RE
.TP
.B \-phasecontrast
.RS
Add MR Velocity Encoding Sequence.
.RE
.TP
.B \-minimalattributes
.RS
Only add minimal required standard attributes for the Enhanced CT or MR SOP Class and nothing more.
.RE
.TP
.B \-nowindow
.RS
Do not add.
.RE
.TP
.B \-enhancedcontrast
.RS
Add Enhanced Contrast/Bolus Module and Contrast/Bolus Usage Sequence. Requires non-standard multivalued
string attributes in source.
.RE
.TP
.B \-sync
.RS
Add the Synchronization Module. Replaces any Synchronization Frame of Reference UID already present in source,
any adds default values for minimal attributes if not already present in source.
.RE
.TP
.B \-copyall
.RS
Copy all attributes from first file rather than only those in modules thought to
be relevant to the multi-frame IOD being created.
.RE
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.LP
\ 
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.RE
\ 
.RE
% dcmulti IMAGES/[0-9]* -verbose >MFIMAGE
.RE
wrote frame 0 from filename <IMAGES/0>
.RE
wrote frame 1 from filename <IMAGES/1>
.RE
 ...
.RE
\ 
.RE
% dcmulti IMAGES/[0-9]* -verbose -sortby InstanceNumber -descending >MFIMAGE
.RE
After sorting
.RE
InstanceNumber[0] = 10 in IMAGES/9
.RE
InstanceNumber[1] = 9 in IMAGES/8
.RE
 ...
.RE
wrote frame 0 from filename <IMAGES/9>
.RE
wrote frame 1 from filename <IMAGES/8>
.RE
 ...
.RE
\ 
.RE
% dcmulti IMAGES/[0-9]* -verbose -sortby ImageOrientationPatient >MFIMAGE
.RE
After sorting
.RE
ImageOrientationPatient[0] = 0 in IMAGES/0
.RE
ImageOrientationPatient[1] = 45 in IMAGES/1
.RE
 ...
.RE
wrote frame 0 from filename <IMAGES/0>
.RE
wrote frame 1 from filename <IMAGES/1>
.RE
 ...
.RE
\ 
.RE
% dcmulti IMAGES/[0-9]* -verbose -sortby ImagePositionPatient >MFIMAGE
.RE
After sorting
.RE
ImageOrientationPatient[0] = \-124.262 in IMAGES/0
.RE
ImageOrientationPatient[1] = \-120.872 in IMAGES/1
.RE
 ...
.RE
wrote frame 0 from filename <IMAGES/0>
.RE
wrote frame 1 from filename <IMAGES/1>
.RE
 ...
.SH FILES
.LP
\ 
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR dcintro(1), 
.BR ancreate(1), 
.BR dcmerge(1), 
.BR dctable(1)
.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (C) 1993-2010. David A. Clunie DBA PixelMed Publishing. All rights reserved.
.SH BUGS
.LP
Data Set Trailing Padding is explicitly removed from the input images,
but if there is anything else after the Pixel Data tag, the output
file will be invalid (tags out of order) since the multiframe Pixel
Data tag is added after everything else in the first input file is
copied. If there are private things after the Pixel Data the use
of the \-removeprivate option may help. This is only a problem
when using the -copyall flag.
.LP
Byte order of input and output must be the same, due to the crude
raw copying that is used to build the multiframe pixel data.
.LP
There is no support for bulding encapsulated transfer syntax
representations of the multiframe image pixel data (i.e. with
delimiters, JPEG, RLE, etc.)
.LP
If any of the Image Pixel Module attributes are inconsistent, such
as different matrix sizes, an error will be flagged but the output
file will still be built (though it will be meaningless).
.LP
Should check some multi valued attributes like PixelSpacing are
consistent but doesn't yet.
