.TH DCSRDUMP 1 "18 July 2009" "DICOM PS3" "DICOM PS3 - Describe DICOM SR content"
.SH NAME
dcsrdump \- ACR/NEMA DICOM PS3 ... DICOM PS3 - Describe DICOM SR content
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP 10
.B dcsrdump
[
.B \-v|verbose
]
[
.B \-vv|veryverbose
]
[
.B \-filename
]
[
.B \-identifier
]
.so man1/optin.so
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B dcsrdump
reads the named dicom structured report (SR) input file and describes the information contained.
.SH OPTIONS
The attribute values, description and verbose output go to standard error.
.PP
The basic input switches are described in dcintro(1). Options specific to this program are:
.TP
.B \-verbose
.RS
Describe the parsing process; does not actually do anything at present.
.RE
.TP
.B \-veryverbose
.RS
Display byte offset from file start and message start, in hexadecimal, and dump contents of the DICOM dataset while reading.
.RE
.TP
.B \-filename
.RS
Show the name of the file supplied in the arguments; a hyphen will be reported if no filename was supplied.
.RE
.TP
.B \-identifier
.RS
Preceed each content item with the dot delimited numeric identifier of the content item (as used in references).
.RE
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.LP
\ 
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.RE
\ 
.RE
% dcsrdump -identifier basictextsr.dcm 
.RE
1: : CONTAINER: (18748-4,LN,"Diagnostic Imaging Report")  [SEPARATE]
.RE
	>1.1: CONTAINS: CONTAINER: (121070,DCM,"Findings")  [SEPARATE]
.RE
		>>1.1.1: CONTAINS: TEXT: (121071,DCM,"Finding")  = "stuff"
.RE
.SH FILES
.LP
\ 
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR dcintro(1)
.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (C) 1993-2010. David A. Clunie DBA PixelMed Publishing. All rights reserved.
.SH BUGS
