.TH PBMTOOVL 1 "01 June 1998" "DICOM PS3" "DICOM PS3 - Create DICOM Overlay from PBM file"
.SH NAME
pbmtoovl \- ACR/NEMA DICOM PS3 ... DICOM PS3 - Create DICOM Overlay from PBM file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP 10
.B pbmtoovl
[
.B \-v|verbose
]
.so man1/genin.so
.so man1/optout.so
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B pbmtoovl
reads the named raw PBM input file and copies the information and
pixel data to a new dicom file, creating a Standalone Overlay SOP
Class instance.
.LP
The output encoding of the file will be the default or explicitly
requested transfer syntax, as described in dcintro(1) under output
options. The byte order of the pixel data will be changed as necessary.
.LP
During the translation, specific attributes may be deleted, added or
replaced, class and instance unique identifiers generated or removed,
group lengths added, or private attributes removed, as specified by
the replacement options described in dcintro(1). This allows the
specification of additional DICOM attributes, such as the patient's
name, necessary to make a complete and useful SC instance.
.SH OPTIONS
The verbose output goes to standard error.
.LP
The basic input switches are described in dcintro(1). Options specific to this program are:
.TP
.B \-standalone
.RS
Create complete Composite Standalone Overlay SOP Instance rather than just
overlay attributes.
.RE
.TP
.B \-verbose
.RS
Display contents after creation, during replacement, and before writing.
.RE
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.LP
\ 
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.SH FILES
.LP
\ 
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR dccp(1) ,
.BR dctoraw(1) ,
.BR pnmtodc(1) ,
.BR rawtodc(1) ,
.BR dciodvfy(1) ,
.BR dcintro(1)
.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (C) 1993-2010. David A. Clunie DBA PixelMed Publishing. All rights reserved.
.SH BUGS
.LP
Only raw grayscale PBM files are supported.
.LP
If the standalone option is not specified, the metainformation header must be
supressed, or an error will be generated, since SOP Class and
Instance UIDs are mandatory in the metainformation header.
