.TH PDFTODC 1 "08 October 2005" "DICOM PS3" "DICOM PS3 - Encapsulate PDF in DICOM"
.SH NAME
pdftodc \- ACR/NEMA DICOM PS3 ... DICOM PS3 - Encapsulate PDF in DICOM
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP 10
.B pdftodc
[
.B \-conceptname scheme code meaning version
]
[
.B \-v|verbose
]
.so man1/genin.so
.so man1/optout.so
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B pdftodc
reads the named PDF input file and encapsulates in a new dicom file, creating an Encapsulated PDF Storage SOP
Class instance.
.LP
The output encoding of the file will be the default or explicitly
requested transfer syntax, as described in dcintro(1) under output
options.
.LP
During the translation, specific attributes may be deleted, added or
replaced, class and instance unique identifiers generated or removed,
group lengths added, or private attributes removed, as specified by
the replacement options described in dcintro(1). This allows the
specification of additional DICOM attributes, such as the patient's
name, necessary to make a complete and useful Encapsulated PDF instance.
.SH OPTIONS
The verbose output goes to standard error.
.LP
The basic input switches are described in dcintro(1). Options specific to this program are:
.TP
.B \-verbose
.RS
Display contents after creation, during replacement, and before writing.
.RE
.TP
.B \-conceptname scheme code meaning version
.RS
Fill in the ConceptNameCodeSequence attribute with the supplied values.
.RE
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.LP
\ 
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\ 
.SH FILES
.LP
\ 
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR dctopdf(1) ,
.BR dcintro(1)
.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (C) 1993-2010. David A. Clunie DBA PixelMed Publishing. All rights reserved.
.SH BUGS

