.TH PGXTODC 1 "11 June 2003" "DICOM PS3" "DICOM PS3 - Create DICOM from PGX file"
.SH NAME
pgxtodc \- ACR/NEMA DICOM PS3 ... DICOM PS3 - Create DICOM from PGX file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP 10
.B pgxtodc
[
.B \-v|verbose
]
.so man1/genin.so
.so man1/optout.so
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B pgxtodc
reads the named PGX input file and copies the information and
pixel data to a new dicom file, creating a Secondary Capture SOP
Class instance.
.LP
The output encoding of the file will be the default or explicitly
requested transfer syntax, as described in dcintro(1) under output
options. The byte order of the pixel data will be changed from that
in the PGX file as necessary.
.LP
During the translation, specific attributes may be deleted, added or
replaced, class and instance unique identifiers generated or removed,
group lengths added, or private attributes removed, as specified by
the replacement options described in dcintro(1). This allows the
specification of additional DICOM attributes, such as the patient's
name, necessary to make a complete and useful SC instance.
.LP
Photometric Interpretation will be MONOCHROME2.
images.
.LP
Pixel Representation will be unsigned or signed as specified in
the PGX file.
.LP
Bits Stored will depend on the bit depth specified in the PGX file.
.SH OPTIONS
The verbose output goes to standard error.
.LP
The basic input switches are described in dcintro(1). Options specific to this program are:
.TP
.B \-verbose
.RS
Display contents after creation, during replacement, and before writing.
.RE
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.LP
\ 
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\ 
.SH FILES
.LP
\ 
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR dxtopgx(1) ,
.BR dcintro(1)
.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (C) 1993-2010. David A. Clunie DBA PixelMed Publishing. All rights reserved.
.SH BUGS

