.TH PNMTODC 1 "9 December 2005" "DICOM PS3" "DICOM PS3 - Create DICOM from PNM file"
.SH NAME
pnmtodc \- ACR/NEMA DICOM PS3 ... DICOM PS3 - Create DICOM from PNM file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP 10
.B pnmtodc
[
.B \-little|\-l|\-big|\-b
]
[
.B \-imagepixelmoduleonly
]
[
.B \-v|verbose
]
.so man1/genin.so
.so man1/optout.so
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B pnmtodc
reads the named PNM input file and copies the information and
pixel data to a new dicom file, creating a Secondary Capture SOP
Class instance.
.LP
The output encoding of the file will be the default or explicitly
requested transfer syntax, as described in dcintro(1) under output
options. The byte order of the pixel data will be changed as necessary.
.LP
During the translation, specific attributes may be deleted, added or
replaced, class and instance unique identifiers generated or removed,
group lengths added, or private attributes removed, as specified by
the replacement options described in dcintro(1). This allows the
specification of additional DICOM attributes, such as the patient's
name, necessary to make a complete and useful SC instance.
.LP
Photometric Interpretation will be MONOCHROME2 for PGM and RGB for PPM
images.
.LP
Pixel Representation will always be unsigned.
.LP
Bits Stored will depend on maxval, and may be less than 8 or 16.
.SH OPTIONS
The verbose output goes to standard error.
.LP
The basic input switches are described in dcintro(1). Options specific to this program are:
.TP
.BI \-little|\-big
.RS
Required if the maxval in the input file is greater than 255 (bit depth is greater than 8).
Originally the PGM and PPM binary formats did not support more than one byte; in earlier
versions of the dicom3tools the non-standard convention of using little endian two byte
raw binary values was supported, but later the maintainers of netpbm added the same
capability, but using big-endian. In order to force the issue in case one behavior or
the other is assumed, it is now mandatory to specify this on the command line whenever
more than 8 bits are used.
.RE
.TP
.BI \-imagepixelmoduleonly
.RS
Write only the image pixel data module and not the basic mandatory secondary capture and composite IOD modules as well
(e.g., prior to dcmerge'ing with an existing SOP instance that has its pixel data deleted); use the -nodisclaimer switch
to avoid generating Image Comments and the -n switch to avoid adding a meta-information header (will fail if you do not
since there is no SOP Class UID to use in the meta-information header).
.RE
.TP
.B \-verbose
.RS
Display contents after creation, during replacement, and before writing.
.RE
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.LP
\ 
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.RE
\ 
.RE
% head gray.256.256.12.pgm
.RE
P5
.RE
256 256
.RE
4095
.RE
% pnmtodc -v -little -r PatientName "Smith^Harry^^^"
.RE
        gray.256.256.12.pgm gray.dc3
.RE
Converting ...
.RE
******** As read ... ********
.RE
(0x0008,0x0020) DA Study Date ...
.RE
 ...
.RE
(0x0010,0x0010) PN Patient's Name <^^^^>
.RE
 ...
.RE
(0x0028,0x0002) US Samples per Pixel          [0x0001] 
.RE
(0x0028,0x0004) CS Photometric Interpretation <MONOCHROME2> 
.RE
(0x0028,0x0008) IS Number of Frames           <1 > 
.RE
(0x0028,0x0010) US Rows                       [0x0100] 
.RE
(0x0028,0x0011) US Columns                    [0x0100] 
.RE
(0x0028,0x0100) US Bits Allocated             [0x0010] 
.RE
(0x0028,0x0101) US Bits Stored                [0x000c] 
.RE
(0x0028,0x0102) US High Bit                   [0x000b] 
.RE
(0x0028,0x0103) US Pixel Representation       [0x0000]
.RE
 ...
.RE
******** After replace before... ********
.RE
 ...
.RE
(0x0010,0x0010) PN Patient's Name <Smith^Harry^^^>
.RE
 ...
.RE
******** As written ... ********
.RE
(0x0002,0x0000) UL Meta Element Group Length ...
.RE
(0x0002,0x0001) OB File Meta Information Version ...
.RE
 ...
.RE
\ 
.RE
% dciodvfy gray.dc3
.RE
SCImage
.RE
\ 
.RE
% head rgb.256.256.8.ppm
.RE
P6
.RE
256 256
.RE
255
.RE
% pnmtodc -v rgb.256.256.8.ppm rgb.dc3
.RE
Converting ...
.RE
******** As read ... ********
.RE
 ...
.RE
(0x0028,0x0002) US Samples per Pixel          [0x0003] 
.RE
(0x0028,0x0004) CS Photometric Interpretation <RGB> 
.RE
(0x0028,0x0008) IS Number of Frames           <1 > 
.RE
(0x0028,0x0010) US Rows                       [0x0100] 
.RE
(0x0028,0x0011) US Columns                    [0x0100] 
.RE
(0x0028,0x0100) US Bits Allocated             [0x0008] 
.RE
(0x0028,0x0101) US Bits Stored                [0x0008] 
.RE
(0x0028,0x0102) US High Bit                   [0x0007] 
.RE
(0x0028,0x0103) US Pixel Representation       [0x0000]
.RE
 ...
.RE
.SH FILES
.LP
\ 
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR dccp(1) ,
.BR dctoraw(1) ,
.BR rawtodc(1) ,
.BR dciodvfy(1) ,
.BR dcintro(1) ,
.BR dcmerge(1)
.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (C) 1993-2010. David A. Clunie DBA PixelMed Publishing. All rights reserved.
.SH BUGS
Only raw grayscale PGM (P5) and RGB PPM (P6) PNM files are supported, not
text or PBM files.
.LP
The number of Columns (horizontal pixels) must be an even number.
